the react framework for production  

react ->  we will write the react code only (like components , props , state etc..)
framework -> our own environment with a lot of features to make it easy for us to build super fast web apps (ex. file based routing)
production -> nextjs helps us to create a production ready apps.


what is NextJs ?

Nextjs is a react framework that enables you to build superfast and extremely user friendly static website , as well as full fledge production ready web applications using react.

in fact , thanks to automatic static optimization , "static" and "dynamic" become one now.

this feature allows Next.js to build hybrid applications that contain both server-rendered and statically generated pages.

* Its reatcjs framework for the wbe apps
* it is based on reactjs library
* but many extra features were added in the nextjs over reactjs 
* like routing  ,  middlewares  etc.
* next js is used for make single-page application


why Next.js ?

1) the big reason to choose next.js is its seo efficiency.
2) it is using server-side rendering(SSR) And at the same time it can be also a great static site generator (SSG).
3) nextjs websites are super fast , easy ot scan , and provide a great user experience and that's why google will favor them above others and rank them higher
4) file based routing (pages/index.js)
5) support for css modules (css for each pages)
6) pre-rendering (better seo)
7) image optimization ("/next/image")
8) api route {`page/api/user.js`}
9) typescript support , fast refresh (fast,live editing experience)
10) dev & prod build system

want to see it practically ? 

open a react website .
open a nextjs made website .

Inspect the code of both :

in react you'll not find any content
but in nextjs you will find content


What can we build with next.js ?

1) MVP (minimum viable product)
2) jamstack websites
3) web portals
4) single web pages , static websites 
5) ecommerce and retail websites 
6) Saas prodicts 
7) complex and demanding web applications 